[Saltar al contingut](en/masters/masters-2006/mti/super.html.md)
[Menu](en/masters/masters-2006/mti/super.html.md)

[ Masters in Computer Science and Engineering](index.md)

[![web UPC](/docroot/fib/imatges/Logo_UPC.gif)](index.md) [![web
FIB](/docroot/fib/imatges/Logo_FIB.gif)](en.md) FACULTAT D'INFORMÀTICA  
DE BARCELONA

[![Map](/docroot/fib/imatges/mobilitat-reduida-fib.gif)](en/centre/on.html.md
"Reduced mobility")

  * [![Home](/docroot/fib/imatges/home.gif)](en.md "Home")
  * [![Information](/docroot/fib/imatges/informacio.gif)](en/condicions_us.html.md "Information")
  * [![Contact](/docroot/fib/imatges/correu.gif)](en/mail.md "Contact")
  * [![Map](/docroot/fib/imatges/mapa_web.gif)](en/mapa.md "Map")

  * [Català](fib/masters/masters-2006/mti/super.html.md)
  * [Castellano](es/masters/masters-2006/mti/super.html.md)

cercar

  * [Current students](en/perf/estudiants.md)
  * [Prospective students](en/perf/nous.md)
  * [Alumni](en/perf/ex.md)
  * [Incoming students](en/erasmus/vols_venir.html.md)

  * [FIB](en.md)
  * [Masters](en/masters.html.md)
  * [Previous Masters](en/masters/masters-2006.html.md)
  * [Master in Information Technology ](en/masters/masters-2006/mti.html.md)
  * [Supercomputing ](en/masters/masters-2006/mti/super.html.md)

#

Supercomputing

  * [Syllabus ](en/masters/masters-2006/mti/pla_estudis.html.md)
  * [Subjects ](en/masters/masters-2006/mti/assignatures.html.md)

## Teacher in charge of the area

Maria-Ribera Sancho (ESSI)  

## Area description

Graduates who have taken this area of specialization possess all the knowledge
and skills required of computer scientists. Moreover, they have in-depth
knowledge using and applying supercomputers and big installations resources to
solve real world problems and to search in different knowledge areas
(Astrophysics, Bioinformatics, Earth Sciences, Fluid Mechanics, etc.).  
  
Professionals who have specialized in this area have the skills needed to
parallel and optimize a program. They are able to use the tools provided by a
supercomputer in order to solve technical and scientific problems of their
area of specialization. They are also able to apply the supercomputing methods
in both technological and industrial environments for the quality and
productivity improvements.  
  
This area of specialization is coordinated from the [Barcelona Supercomputing
Center (BSC-CNS)](index.md), which offers supercomputing resources in order to
carry out the most applied part of the subjects.  

## Curricular structure

Students of this area of specialization will be able to choose between one of
these itineraries:  

  * 18 ECTS Core subjects + 12 ECTS Group-1subjects + 30 ECTS Master Project
  * 18 ECTS Core subjects + 18 ECTS Group-1 subjects + 9 ECTS Group-2 subjects + 15 ECTS Master Project

  

## Subjects in the area of specialization

**Core subjects:**  

  * [Optimization of numerical simulations in engineering](en/masters/mti/assignatures/34326.html.md)
  * [Parallel programming models and algorithms](en/masters/mti/assignatures/34325.html.md)
  * [Supercomputer architectures](en/masters/mti/assignatures/ASC.html.md)

  
**Group-1 subjects:**  

  * [Awareness of Architecture in Programming](en/infoAca/estudis/assignatures/PCA.html.md)
  * [Cutting-Edge Computer Architectures](en/infoAca/estudis/assignatures/ACA.html.md)[](en/masters/mti/assignatures/MD2.html.md)
  * [Data mining 2](en/masters/mti/assignatures/MD2.html.md)
  * [High performance computational mechanics: introduction, algorithms and applications](en/masters/mti/assignatures/MCAP.html.md)
  * [Multiprocessors](en/infoAca/estudis/assignatures/MP.html.md)  

  * [Performance tuning and analysis tools](en/masters/mti/assignatures/EAOR.html.md)
  * Seminars I, II, III

**  
Group-2 subjects:**  

  * Applications of bioinformatics
  * [Applications of computational astrophysics](en/masters/mti/assignatures/AAC.html.md)
  * Applications of Earth sciences
  * Bioinformatics
  * [Computational astrophysics](en/masters/mti/assignatures/AFC.html.md)
  * [Environmental modelling](en/masters/mti/assignatures/MM.html.md)

  

Compartir

[ ![Share](http://s7.addthis.com/static/btn/sm-plus.gif) ](bookmark.php.md
"Compartir")

  * [School ](en/centre.html.md)
  * [Informatics Engineering ](en/estudiar-enginyeria-informatica.html.md)
  * [Bioinformatics ](en/bioinformatica.html.md)
  * [Masters ](en/masters.html.md)
    * [Master in Informatics Engineering ](en/masters/mei.html.md)
    * [Master in Artificial Intelligence ](en/masters/mai.html.md)
    * [Master in Innovation and Research in Informatics ](en/masters/miri.html.md)
    * [Erasmus Mundus Master in Information Technology for Business Intelligence ](en/masters/it4bi.html.md)
    * [Master in Pure and Applied Logic ](en/masters/mpal.html.md)
    * [Master in Computational Modelling in Physics, Chemistry and Biochemistry ](en/masters/mmcfqb.html.md)
    * [Previous Masters ](en/masters/masters-2006.html.md)
      * [Master in Information Technology ](en/masters/masters-2006/mti.html.md)
      * [Master in Artificial Intelligence ](en/masters/masters-2006/mia.html.md)
      * [Master in Computer Architecture, Networks and Systems ](en/masters/masters-2006/cans.html.md)
      * [Master in Computing ](en/masters/masters-2006/mcomp.html.md)
      * [Erasmus Mundus Master in Data Mining and Knowledge Management ](en/masters/masters-2006/dmkm.html.md)
      * [Erasmus Mundus Master in Distributed Computing ](en/masters/masters-2006/emdc.html.md)
      * [Master in Sustainability, Technology and Innovation ](en/masters/masters-2006/msti.html.md)
    * [Grants and financial aid ](en/masters/beques.html.md)
    * [Calendar ](en/masters/calendari-lectiu.html.md)
  * [Administrative procedures ](en/tramits.html.md)
  * [Services ](en/serveis.html.md)
  * [Mobility ](en/erasmus.html.md)
  * [University-Enterprise ](en/empresa.html.md)
  * [University life ](en/vida.html.md)

Username Password

[ ![Entra amb el carnet
UPC](/docroot/fib/imatges/carnet_upc_en.gif)](cas/login-cert.md)

  * [News](en/noticies.md)
  * [Agenda](en/agenda.md)

  

![logo FIB](/docroot/fib/imatges/Logo_FIB_inferior.gif) © Barcelona school of
informatics \- [ Contact](en/mail.md) \- [![](/docroot/fib/imatges/feed-
icon-16x16.gif) RSS](en/rss.rss.md) This website uses cookies to offer you the
best experience and service. If you continue browsing, it is understood that
you accept our [ cookies policy](disclaimer/cookies-policy.md).  
[Classic version](en/masters/masters-2006/mti/super.html.md) [Mobile
version](en/masters/masters-2006/mti/super.html.md)

